---

layout: post
title: "HT550 Days 3 and 4"
byline: "... and why I scratched"
by: Emil Carr-Ross
date: 2024-05-29 09:27:00 +0100
categories: posts
---

... and why I scratched

I spent days 3 and 4 with mostly no phone signal and no charge.

Day 3 started in the Croick estate where I had rolled out my bivvy the night before after riding with Felix. The morning was rough, I felt stiff, surrounded by midges and having forgotten to take my net into the bivvy, I did not want to get up. And I don't think I did until after 9am.
Once I finally rolled out the bivvy and rolled through to Oykel bridge, I found our favourite dotwatchers again and refilled on water, before heading up to Achness hotel for breakfast. The place seemed dead but after ringing the bell they welcomed me in for cereal and two breakfast rolls. Another rider passes as I eat and we say hello.

A later conversation with my partner May reveals these are their local roads when they're home in the Highlands.

Up the gravel track, down the hydro and wind installation and out to Loch Shin where I'm dangerously passed several times by sports cars doing flybys, including after they told me it would be the last one. To their credit, they apologised.

The doubletrack towards the Bealach Horn starts here. About 10km through rocky puddles I pass someone going south, coming back from Cape Wrath having just completed An Turas Mor. he remarks how little I have - I remark how much he has.

Soon the track splits off and becomes rougher. Some excellent spots for future camping, and some streams with clear, clear water let me refill. The track gets rougher and rougher and soon I have to stop-start and walk over the worst of it.

Up one peak, and I stop for some porridge on my stove, feeling the lack of carbs and my stomach begging for fibre.

Then back down. Soon I realise how rough the trail ahead is going to be.

A sharp ledge where the loam has fallen away has me decide to skirt around, between two rocks. Bad choice. One step and I'm knee deep in bog, and my bike is axle-deep. I feel the resistance and realise there's no way out but forwards. Second leg in, roll the bike forwards to solid ground, and brace myself against it as I work myself free.

A river crossing follows where I kneel down to rinse myself off and carry onwards. No sooner am I on the trail up the next summit when I look back and double-take to see Eliza washing herself and her bike in the river, having just passed her without realising.

We hike near each other. Eliza is *fast* at hiking and shows me up, but gave me a reason to keep pushing. We reach the summit at a similar time, before she takes off, her full suspension bike far more capable at descending than my fully-rigid bike or I.

At the bottom I find her in a stables. I check the time, and the distance to drumbeg, and suddenly I find some untapped energy to keep me pushing. With 1.5 hours, I *knew* it would be tight, but I also *knew* I could make it.

Going up the forestry track, I just kept pedalling, kept pedalling, ate haribos, kept pedalling and soon I was descending into Kylesku bridge. What a sight. The track became fast and easy. I sustained near 35km/hr when suddenly...

The bike skids out. Back wheel whips around to the left and topples over forwards. Im thrown off like a projectile straight into a verge. Reflexively, I bend my elbows and knees and manage to brace my fall, protecting my head.

A wave of diziness, I check my helmet, intact, no head impact. I can move my arms. But my knees...

The adrenaline has me let out a blood-curdling scream. I'm sure I could be heard from across the valley. I lie there trying to find the strength to get up. Slowly, I move one knee, and the other, and am shocked to find myself intact. I was sure I had torn an ACL, or both. But just two skinned knees and some blood. My bike is intact too. Almost in tears now, I keep going, desperate to make Drumbeg stores, desperate to cry but the tears just wouldn't flow.

Over the bridge into the amazing views of Asynt. I know I've been here as a child but I never remember it like this. This is a truly amazing way to experience Scotland.

I keep pushing, keep pushing, keep pushing but soon realise I won't make Drumbeg tonight. I find a patch of grass with two tents already at the rock stop, and roll out my bivvy.

**Day 4**

Another slow start. Another morning of depression. I don't think I was on my bike until after 10am. I later find out Louise and Sam probably passed me and were in the hotel, within spitting distance, for breakfast.

I carry on to Drumbeg, this time knowing it will be open. I stare at my wahoo cursing the cues for being about 4km out of sync, along the steep, steep, unjulating road to Drumbeg.

A goat terrorises some cars as I arrive.

I'm greeter by the shopkeeper smd the lovely, lovely 17 year old cat Myrtle. I open a tab, barely able to stomach any real food, and sit down.

Soon Sam arrives, and Louise. 

I decide to scratch. I can't take another morning of depression.

-- story tbc . I decided to get on my bike to fort William and finish writing for now. --
